Instructions/Labs/M4 Case Study 2 Configure production control_masterplanning.md, before:

---
lab:
    title: 'Case study 2 Master planning'
    module: 'Module 4 Configure production control'
---

# Module 4 Configure production control

## Case study 2 Master planning

### Exercise #1: Firm a planned order and change the order type

The Planning Manager at **USMF**, wants to know how to setup, manage and
use the master planning module and be able to process planned orders

He is aware that he should have a source of demand in the system for the
items, so that when master planning is run it can provide some planned
orders.

Sources of demand can be sales orders, sales forecasts, safety stock,
scheduled Kanbans, production orders, and others

This manager asked you to help him to test this out.

Would you be able to help?

You will have to do the following:

- Create and confirm a sales order

- Run master planning

- Firm a planned order

- Review the purchase order

- Change a planned order type

- Review the planned order and verify the change

#### Steps

Before the execution of this task, credit management needs to be
disabled. Complete the following steps:

1. Open the **Sales and marketing \> Customers \> All customers**
    module.

2. Search for customer **US-013.**

3. Open the details for **US-013**.

4. Expand the **Credit and collections** FastTab.

5. Select **Edit**. Set **Unlimited credit limit** and **Exclude from
    credit management** to **Yes**.

6. Select **Save**.

**Create and confirm a sales order**

1. Open **Sales and marketing** \> **Sales orders** \> **All Sales
    orders**.

2. Select **New**.

3. Enter or select **US-013** for customer Pelican Wholesales in the
    **Customer account** field.

4. Accept the default settings in all other fields. Select **OK**.

5. In the **Sales order** form, open the **Sales order Lines** FastTab.

6. Enter or select **D0003** in the **Item number** field.

7. Enter or select **12** in the **Quantity** field.

8. Accept the default values for the remaining fields.

9. Select **Save**.

10. Select **Confirm sales order** from the **Sell** tab in the Action
    pane.

11. Accept all the default settings in the **Confirm sales order** form.

12. Select **OK**.

13. Select **OK**.

14. Close all pages.

**Run master planning**

1. Open **Master Planning \> Master Planning \> Run \> Master
    Planning**.

2. In the **Master plan** field, select **StaticPlan**.

3. Select **OK**.

**Firm a planned order**

1. Open **Master planning** \> **Master planning** \> **Planned
    orders**.

2. In the **Planned orders** page, select the line for order number
    **004261**.

3. Select the **Firm** button in the Action pane.

4. In the **Firming** page, in the **Update marking** field, select
    **Standard**.

5. Select **OK**.

**Review the purchase order**

1. Open **Procurement and sourcing \> Purchase orders \> All purchase
    orders**.

2. In the **All purchase orders** page, sort the list by the **Delivery
    date** field.

3. Verify the firmed order is now listed with a status of Open order.

4. Close the pages.

**Change a planned order type**

1. Open **Master planning \> Master planning \> Planned orders**.

2. In the **Planned orders** page, select the line for order number
    004262.

3. Select the **Planned order** tab in the action pane.

4. Select the Change to drop-down arrow in the Maintain area.

5. Select **Planned production order**.

6. In the **Change to planned production order** page, select **OK**.

**Review the planned order and verify the change**

1. In the **Planned orders** list page, verify that the Reference field
    has been updated to Planned production orders for order number
    **004262**.

2. Close the pages.

### Exercise #2: Create an intercompany planning group and assign an item allocation key

The materials and production scheduling manager wants to develop a new
intercompany planning group.

Assemblies are shipped from DEMF to USMF. While at USMF they are painted
and finished with the North American logo.

Then they are transferred to the USRT operation for sale.

She wants to use plans 20, DynPlan, and MasterPlan respectively to
accomplish this goal

She asked for your help.

You will need to validate the intercompany master planning parameters
and perform some setups before running the intercompany master plan. You
will also need to run the intercompany plan using the intercompany
planning\
group that you created and view the results in the intercompany supply
and demand form

Can you help?

You will have to do the following:

- Create an intercompany planning group

- Assign an item allocation key

- Run an intercompany\
    master plan

#### Steps

**Create an intercompany planning group**

1. In the **USMF** Company, select **Show navigation pane**.

2. Open **Master planning \> Setup \> Intercompany planning groups**.

3. Select **New** in the Action pane.

4. Enter **40** in the **Name** field and **Intercompany Extended
    Group** in the **Description** field.

5. Select **Save**.

6. Select **New** on the tool bar for **Intercompany planning group
    members** tab.

7. Select **DEMF** in the **Legal entity** field.

8. Enter **0** in the **Scheduling sequence** field.

9. Select **20** in the **Master Plan** field.

10. Leave the **Automatic Copy to Static Plan** and **Automatic Copy to
    Dynamic Plan** checkboxes blank.

11. Select **Save.**

**Assign an item allocation key**

1. Select **Master Planning \> Setup \> Demand Forecasting \> Item
    Allocation Keys**.

2. Select **Wizard**.

3. . Select **Next**. Select **Audio** from **Item Group** drop-down
    menu. Select Next.

4. Enter or select **Audio group** in **Name** box.

5. Select **Next.**

6. Select **Next** on the **Overview** page after verifying the
    information is correct.

7. Select **Finish** on the **Completed** page after verifying the
    information is correct.

8. Switch to **DEMF**, perform steps 1 - 7.

9. Switch to the **USMF** company.

10. Select **Master Planning \> Demand Forecasting \> Intercompany Planning Groups**.

11. Select Intercompany planning group **40** previously created.

12. Under **Intercompany planning group members**, select **Item Allocation Keys.**

13. Select **Audio** under the **Unassigned Item Allocation Keys** box,
    then select **\>** to move it to the **Assigned Allocation Keys**
    box.

14. Close the page.

**Set Base Calendar**

1. Select **DEMF** as the legal entity , select **Organization Administration \>
    Setup \> Calendars \> Calendars**.

2. You should see Calendar named **Standard**. On the top menu, select
    **Working times**.

3. Select **Compose working times**, select **Standard** under
    **Calendar.** Enable the **Use Base Calendar** button. Then set
    **Start and End Date** from **1 JAN 2023** to **31 Dec 2023**.

4. Select **OK.**

5. Set **Open** period as Master planning running date for today's
    date.

6. On **Working times**, select on **Add** and then select **Save**.

**Run an intercompany master plan**

1. In **USMF**, select the **Show navigation pane**.

2. Open **Master planning \> Master Planning \> Run \>
    Intercompany master planning**.

3. Select **60** for **Intercompany planning group**.

4. Select **2** for **Number of intercompany planning iterations**.

5. Select **Regeneration** for **First iteration**.

6. Select **Net change** for **Subsequent iteration**.

7. Select **Track processing time** setting slider to **No**.

8. Set **Number of threads** to **0**.

9. Select **Run in the background**.

10. Set **Batch processing** toggle key to **Yes**

11. Select **OK**.

### Exercise #3: Plan a production schedule from a master planning run (Bonus)

USMF has decided to plan the L0025 WLAN Radio software installed product
from a production schedule that results from a master planning run

They are not sure how to do so and asked you to help.

Can you help?

You will have to do the following:

- Configure item coverage

- Create a scheduled\
    Kanban rule

- Run master planning

#### Steps

**Configure item coverage:**

1. Go to **Master planning \> Setup \> Item coverage**.

2. Use the Quick Filter to filter on the Item number field with a value
    of **L0025**.

3. Select **Item coverage**.

4. Select **New**.

5. Set **Minimum** to **150.00**.

6. In the **Warehouse** field, enter or select **13**.

7. Select the **General** tab.

8. Select the **Override time fences** check box.

9. In the **Automatic firming time fence (days)** field, enter **1**.

10. Select the **Lead time** tab.

11. Select the **Production** check box.

12. In the **Production time** field, enter **1**.

13. Select **Yes** in the **Working days** field.

14. Select **Save**.

15. Close all forms.

**Create scheduled kanban rule**

1. Go to **Product information management \> Lean manufacturing \>
    Kanban rules**.

2. Select **New**.

3. In the **Replenishment strategy** field, select **Scheduled**.

4. In the **First plan activity** field, enter or select **Final
    assembly**

5. Collapse the **Kanban rule** section.

6. Expand the **Details** section.

7. In the **Product** field, enter or select **L0025**.

8. In the **Configuration** field, enter or select **01**.

9. Select Save.

10. Close the page.

**Run master planning**

1. Go to **Master planning \> Master planning \> Run \> Master
    planning**.

2. In the **Master plan** field, enter or select **DynPlan**.

3. Expand the **Records to include** to include section.

4. Select **Filter**.

5. In the Criteria field, enter or select **L0025**.

6. Select **OK**.

7. Select **OK**.

**View results**

1. Go to **Master planning \> Master planning \> Planned orders**

2. Use the Quick Filter to filter on the Item number field with a value
    of **L0025** and press **Enter**.

3. Review planned kanbans for **L0025**.

4. Select the line with quantity of **150**.

5. Select **Supply schedule** in the view tab on the action pane.

6. Verify the results. As you have learned, the kanbans were generated
    by Master planning.

Commit message:

Update M4 Case Study 2 Configure production control_masterplanning.md
Minor updates to formatting & syntax

Instructions/Labs/M4 Case Study 2 Configure production control_masterplanning.md, after:

---
lab:
    title: 'Case study 2 Master planning'
    module: 'Module 4 Configure production control'
---

# Module 4 Configure production control

## Case study 2 Master planning

### Exercise #1: Firm a planned order and change the order type

The Planning Manager at **USMF**, wants to know how to setup, manage and
use the master planning module and be able to process planned orders

He is aware that he should have a source of demand in the system for the
items, so that when master planning is run it can provide some planned
orders.

Sources of demand can be sales orders, sales forecasts, safety stock,
scheduled Kanbans, production orders, and others

This manager asked you to help him to test this out.

Would you be able to help?

You will have to do the following:

- Create and confirm a sales order

- Run master planning

- Firm a planned order

- Review the purchase order

- Change a planned order type

- Review the planned order and verify the change

#### Steps

Before the execution of this task, credit management needs to be
disabled. Complete the following steps:

1. Open the **Sales and marketing \> Customers \> All customers**
    module.

2. Search for customer **US-013.**

3. Open the details for **US-013**.

4. Expand the **Credit and collections** FastTab.

5. Select **Edit**. Set **Unlimited credit limit** and **Exclude from
    credit management** to **Yes**.

6. Select **Save**.

**Create and confirm a sales order**

1. Open **Sales and marketing** \> **Sales orders** \> **All Sales
    orders**.

2. Select **New**.

3. Enter or select **US-013** for customer Pelican Wholesales in the
    **Customer account** field.

4. Accept the default settings in all other fields. Select **OK**.

5. In the **Sales order** form, open the **Sales order Lines** FastTab.

6. Enter or select **D0003** in the **Item number** field.

7. Enter or select **12** in the **Quantity** field.

8. Accept the default values for the remaining fields.

9. Select **Save**.

10. From the **Sell** tab in the Action pane, under **Generate**, select **Confirm sales order**.

11. Accept all the default settings in the **Confirm sales order** form.

12. Select **OK** on the sales order confirmation screen.

    >**NOTE** A message may appear stating,
    > \"You are about to post the document without printing it. Select OK to continue."

13. Select **OK**.

14. Close all pages.

**Run master planning**

1. Open **Master Planning \> Master Planning \> Run \> Master
    Planning**.

2. In the **Master plan** field, select **StaticPlan**.

3. Select **OK**.

**Firm a planned order**

1. Open **Master planning** \> **Master planning** \> **Planned
    orders**.

2. In the **Planned orders** page, select the line for order number
    **004261**.

3. Select the **Firm** button in the Action pane.

4. In the **Firming** page, in the **Update marking** field, select
    **Standard**.

5. Select **OK**.

**Review the purchase order**

1. Open **Procurement and sourcing \> Purchase orders \> All purchase
    orders**.

2. In the **All purchase orders** page, sort the list by the **Delivery
    date** field.

3. Verify the firmed order is now listed with a status of Open order.

4. Close the pages.

**Change a planned order type**

1. Open **Master planning \> Master planning \> Planned orders**.

2. In the **Planned orders** page, select the line for order number
    004262.

3. Select the **Planned order** tab in the action pane.

4. Select the **Change to** drop-down arrow in the **Maintain** group.

5. Select **Planned production order**.

6. In the **Change to planned production order** page, select **OK**.

**Review the planned order and verify the change**

1. In the **Planned orders** list page, verify that the Reference field
    has been updated to Planned production orders for order number
    **004262**.

2. Close the pages.

### Exercise #2: Create an intercompany planning group and assign an item allocation key

The materials and production scheduling manager wants to develop a new
intercompany planning group.

Assemblies are shipped from DEMF to USMF. While at USMF they are painted
and finished with the North American logo.

Then they are transferred to the USRT operation for sale.

She wants to use plans 20, DynPlan, and MasterPlan respectively to
accomplish this goal

She asked for your help.

You will need to validate the intercompany master planning parameters
and perform some setups before running the intercompany master plan. You
will also need to run the intercompany plan using the intercompany
planning\
group that you created and view the results in the intercompany supply
and demand form

Can you help?

You will have to do the following:

- Create an intercompany planning group

- Assign an item allocation key

- Run an intercompany\
    master plan

#### Steps

**Create an intercompany planning group**

1. In **USMF**, select **Show navigation pane**.

2. Open **Master planning \> Setup \> Intercompany planning groups**.

3. Select **New** in the Action pane.

4. Enter **40** in the **Name** field and **Intercompany Extended
    Group** in the **Description** field.

5. Select **Save**.

6. Select **New** on the tool bar for **Intercompany planning group
    members** tab.

7. Select **DEMF** in the **Legal entity** field.

8. Enter **0** in the **Scheduling sequence** field.

9. Select **20** in the **Master Plan** field.

10. Leave the **Automatic Copy to Static Plan** and **Automatic Copy to
    Dynamic Plan** checkboxes blank.

11. Select **Save.**

**Assign an item allocation key**

1. Select **Master Planning \> Setup \> Demand Forecasting \> Item
    Allocation Keys**.

2. Select **Wizard**.

3. . Select **Next**. Select **Audio** from **Item Group** drop-down
    menu. Select Next.

4. Enter or select **Audio group** in **Name** box.

5. Select **Next.**

6. Select **Next** on the **Overview** page after verifying the
    information is correct.

7. Select **Finish** on the **Completed** page after verifying the
    information is correct.

8. Switch to **DEMF** and perform steps 1 - 7.

9. Switch to the **USMF** company.

10. Select **Master Planning \> Demand Forecasting \> Intercompany Planning Groups**.

11. Select Intercompany planning group **40** previously created.

12. Under **Intercompany planning group members**, select **Item Allocation Keys.**

13. Select **Audio** under the **Unassigned Item Allocation Keys** box,
    then select **\>** to move it to the **Assigned Allocation Keys**
    box.

14. Close the page.

**Set Base Calendar**

1. Select **DEMF** as the legal entity , select **Organization Administration \>
    Setup \> Calendars \> Calendars**.

2. You should see Calendar named **Standard**. On the top menu, select
    **Working times**.

3. Select **Compose working times**, select **Standard** under
    **Calendar.** Enable the **Use Base Calendar** button. Then set
    **Start and End Date** from **1 JAN 2023** to **31 Dec 2023**.

4. Select **OK.**

5. In the **Control** column, set **Open** period as Master planning running date for today's
    date.

6. Select **Save**.

7. On **Working times**, select on **Add** and then select **Save**.

**Run an intercompany master plan**

1. In **USMF**, select the **Show navigation pane**.

2. Open **Master planning \> Master Planning \> Run \>
    Intercompany master planning**.

3. Select **60** for **Intercompany planning group**.

4. Select **2** for **Number of intercompany planning iterations**.

5. Select **Regeneration** for **First iteration**.

6. Select **Net change** for **Subsequent iteration**.

7. Select **Track processing time** setting slider to **No**.

8. Set **Number of threads** to **0**.

9. Select **Run in the background**.

10. Set **Batch processing** toggle key to **Yes**

11. Select **OK**.

### Exercise #3: Plan a production schedule from a master planning run (Bonus)

USMF has decided to plan the L0025 WLAN Radio software installed product
from a production schedule that results from a master planning run

They are not sure how to do so and asked you to help.

Can you help?

You will have to do the following:

- Configure item coverage

- Create a scheduled\
    Kanban rule

- Run master planning

#### Steps

**Configure item coverage:**

1. Go to **Master planning \> Setup \> Item coverage**.

2. Use the Quick Filter to filter on the Item number field with a value
    of **L0025**.

3. Select **Item coverage**.

4. Select **New**.

5. Set **Minimum** to **150.00**.

6. In the **Warehouse** field, enter or select **13**.

7. Select the **General** tab.

8. Select the **Override time fences** check box.

9. In the **Automatic firming time fence (days)** field, enter **1**.

10. Select the **Lead time** tab.

11. Select the **Production** check box.

12. In the **Production time** field, enter **1**.

13. Select **Yes** in the **Working days** field.

14. Select **Save**.

15. Close all forms.

**Create scheduled kanban rule**

1. Go to **Product information management \> Lean manufacturing \>
    Kanban rules**.

2. Select **New**.

3. In the **Replenishment strategy** field, select **Scheduled**.

4. In the **First plan activity** field, enter or select **Final
    assembly**

5. Collapse the **Kanban rule** section.

6. Expand the **Details** section.

7. In the **Product** field, enter or select **L0025**.

8. In the **Configuration** field, enter or select **01**.

9. Select Save.

10. Close the page.

**Run master planning**

1. Go to **Master planning \> Master planning \> Run \> Master
    planning**.

2. In the **Master plan** field, enter or select **DynPlan**.

3. Expand the **Records to include** to include section.

4. Select **Filter**.

5. In the Criteria field, enter or select **L0025**.

6. Select **OK**.

7. Select **OK**.

**View results**

1. Go to **Master planning \> Master planning \> Planned orders**

2. Use the Quick Filter to filter on the Item number field with a value
    of **L0025** and press **Enter**.

3. Review planned kanbans for **L0025**.

4. Select the line with quantity of **150**.

5. Select **Supply schedule** in the view tab on the action pane.

6. Verify the results. As you have learned, the kanbans were generated
    by Master planning.
